The Project Gutenberg eBook of Over the Wire, by Eugene Jones

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Over the Wire

Author: Eugene Jones

Release Date: February 25, 2022 [eBook #67496]

Language: English

Produced by: Roger Frank and Sue Clark. This file was produced from
             images generously made available by The Internet Archive.

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK OVER THE WIRE ***


                            Over the Wire

                           By Eugene Jones


Snow and ice on that mountain. Nothing but snow. The wind drove it
with a howl against the windows, where it stuck on the warm panes.
Sometimes I could just make out the blur of the semaphore lights and
sometimes I couldn’t. All day the blizzard had dumped its swirling
load about us, and now, when night closed down, the storm took the
tower in its teeth, shaking it like you’ve seen a dog shake a rat.

Oh, we were warm and cozy enough with our stove red hot. Which was
more than Donaldson, the agent at Hastings, could say. His wire talk
was rotten, chattery, and he told us he’d run out of coal. Looked like
he’d freeze to death, according to him. But Big Ben prophesied grimly
that Donaldson could take care of himself, so we might as well save
our worries.

I don’t suppose you ever heard of Big Ben, but that is your loss.
Every soul on the Mountain Division knew him. His Morse snapped out
like a track torpedo, fast, too, but accurate, staccato, with a smooth
flow as if a machine had hold of the key. Dots and dashes were part of
him, for, after years of it, he could express himself better that way.

Sort of feeling for the language, I suppose. I’ve seen the same gift
since, but never to the extent Ben possessed it. Why, he could come
mighty close to telling the color of your eyes over a telegraph-wire.

He and I had worked tower BB-17 on the Mountain Division for three
years, and during that time I never saw him flurried. Once a freight,
running extra, got by us—dispatcher tangled up his train-sheet. Forty
minutes later a relay came into stop her or she’d meet 87 on the big
grade.

It takes just forty minutes to run from our tower to Hastings, further
down the line. Hastings is the last station with a siding before the
grade. In other words, the freight ought to have been getting her O.
K. from Hastings right then.

Was Ben excited? Not one little bit.

Donaldson caught his first call. Clear as a bell it was. And Donaldson
had time to flag the freight.

But the particular night I’m speaking of, my side partner appeared a
bit uneasy, which was enough to set my think-tank working. He’d drop
down alongside the key for a moment; then he’d wander over to the
windows, trying to pierce the blizzard.

He was a big man with a hearty laugh and a mouth full of teeth and a
whiskered chin full of determination. His red hair, as brilliant as
the glow in his corn-cob pipe, usually stood on end. But his eyes were
gray and pleasant; that is, generally they were. Yet I’ve noticed ’em
hard as rocks, drilling into you with a gleam in ’em like you see
jumping across a spark-gap. Right now they were anxious.

Perhaps that wasn’t so strange, either, for all day long, from the
length of the division, had come bunches of trouble. A snowshed out
here; a freight ditched there; hell to pay everywhere.

Wires were down, too. Not a word could we get below Hastings or north
of the junction. Toward night every siding was overflowing with
deadheaded rolling stock. You see, the big grade—it’s four and a half
per cent in places—handicaps us because even our best oil-burners
won’t haul much tonnage on it in a blizzard. They can’t make steam.

And this particular frolic of the elements promised to beat anything
that had struck us in twenty years. At 10 P.M. the chief dispatcher
ordered the line cleared for the night, barring No. 77 southbound,
which was to make her run as usual. I reckon you’ve heard of that
train—the Cumberland Limited, all steel and solid Pullman? She was to
follow a snow-plow, and headquarters gossip filtering to us hinted she
might find the blizzard a bit of a teaser.

Suddenly Big Ben turned on me. “Jim,” said he, “I don’t like it.
What’s the old man thinking of to let 77 through? Have you heard what
she’s carrying to-night?”

I allowed I hadn’t.

“Well, there’s something like one hundred thousand in gold in her
express-car. Government consignment. I got it straight. What a chance
for a hold-up! Remember that cut below Hastings?” He shook his massive
head dubiously. “It’s been done before.”

As if to emphasize his words, the storm swooped down with renewed
energy until the tower swayed like a lighthouse. Great guns! how the
wind shrieked at us. How the snow thudded against the windows. And
when you _hear_ snow, you know there’s a double-headed gale behind it.

About that time our call came over the wire: “N-H, N-H, N-H.”

As Ben jumped in, I put down my paper to listen. I find it’s a good
thing to pay pretty strict attention to anything on a night like that.
It keeps you from seeing shadows that aren’t there, and hearing sounds
which your common sense tells you must be the wind.

Presently came the professional dot and dash of Donaldson down at
Hastings. Now Donaldson, next to Big Ben, was a star operator, and the
two of ’em could talk better and with more satisfaction over a stretch
of singing wire than if they were sitting together in a parlor.

Even _I_ knew Donaldson’s style, although I wasn’t more than middling
expert. There were tricks in his stuff such as shortening his o’s, but
his Morse ran mighty smooth. I read off the message to myself.

“Freezing cold down here, Ben. Lonely, too. Damn lonely. What do you
get on 77?”

The big man at the table cut in: “Brace up; 77 on time. Nothing to
bother her to-night except the storm. All freight deadheaded.”

That seemed to satisfy Donaldson, for there was a long silence broken
only by the whine of the wind and the _thud_, _thud_ of driven snow. I
had just picked up the paper again when “N-H, N-H, N-H,” snapped at
us.

The crispness of dots and dashes suggested excitement. Ben
acknowledged deliberately, but when he closed the wire I saw a
narrowing of his eyes.

Donaldson was in a hurry. “Going to quit to-morrow,” he began. “Can’t
stand this joint. Say, there’s two of you up there. You’re lucky. Old
man will have to come across with an assistant or I quit. Do you know
you’re the nearest white man to me? Just me alone here. No night for a
man to be alone. Hold on, I think I hear somebody in the waiting-room.
Maybe I’ll have company.”

But he opened up again the next moment with: “Good Lord, must be going
off my nut. Nobody in the waiting-room. It’s the wind. I tell you this
place is like the north pole. If I could only hear a fire crackling.
Say, there it goes again. No, I’m way off; that’s a fact. I’ll have to
look around. Do you notice anything funny in the wind? I seem to. Why
the devil didn’t they put shades on these windows? What’s the matter
with me anyhow?”

Ben went back at him, calm as a summer’s day. “Hold on, old man; take
some whisky. It’s your nerves. Get a grip on yourself.”

“All right,” answered Donaldson, his wire-talk becoming calmer. “Yes,
I’ll take the whisky. Let me know about 77.”

That was all for a while, but Ben eyed me through the fumes of his
pipe. “I don’t like it,” he muttered. “Not a bit. Never knew Donaldson
to wildcat before. Wonder if there _is_ anything wrong?”

I didn’t say what was on my mind, for the shriek of the storm
interrupted. So we just sat still and looked at each other and
wondered what it would be like if either of _us_ weren’t there.

Somehow I couldn’t get rid of the picture of Hastings station—a little
frame building backed up against a cliff, with a siding cutting in
behind it and the banked curve of the main line stretching away before
it. A few farmers used the station, but a water-tank was its real
excuse for existence.

I could see how the snow had half-buried it, and how Donaldson,
veteran that he was, might hear strange sounds in the gale. I could
see a great many things right then, but the sight wasn’t pleasant.

Snow, snow and more snow, and icy rails and low, hurrying clouds you
felt were brushing against the tower. “Listen!” I snapped.

Ben jumped to his feet. “This won’t do. Here, you quit listening or
you’ll be as bad as Donaldson.” Then he came over to me. “I guess it’s
just as well there’re two of us,” he said very quietly. “Try the
junction for a report on 77.”

I took the key with a sense of awe—only a couple of slim wires between
us and the world, and a thousand chances for the storm to tear ’em
down. But if we felt it, what about Donaldson? What about Donaldson,
anyway?

The junction answered after a bit, though there was no life in the
sending. “McFlin,” nodded Ben. “I know his style. Ask him whether the
orders for 77 stand.”

I did.

“Sure,” clicked McFlin; “77 on time. Pass her through. Rotten night,
isn’t it? They got a plow leading the limited like a blind baby.
So-long.”

That was at eleven two. Twenty minutes later Donaldson started after
us again, but it was a chattering, wild Donaldson; a new Donaldson who
tumbled his letters over each other.

“N-H, N-H, N-H,” he stuttered, even after I had opened the wire. “N-H,
N-H.”

I sent him a string of Rs a mile long before he acknowledged. Then:

“What’s the matter with you up there?” he clicked. “Gone to sleep? But
you can’t sleep now; you’ve got to talk to me or I’ll be ready for the
queer house. Something is walking up and down outside my window. I’ve
seen it twice. It can’t be a man, and animals don’t prowl about in a
storm like this. Listen to that wind. I tell you it’s walking around
the station. What am I saying? Do you believe in ghosts? It was in the
waiting-room a while back, but it got out before I had a shot at it.
What would you do if you were down here alone, snowed in like a damned
Eskimo? What would you do if it started to walk—”

Big Ben strode across the room. “Give me the key,” he thundered. His
eyes were hard gray now, like rock, with little points of fire in
them, and it seemed he would smash the instrument as he crashed down
with Donaldson’s call.

“Stop that!” went the dots and dashes, clear cut, fast, but Lordy,
they had a punch behind ’em. “Pull yourself together. Take some more
whisky. Wake up. Remember you’re an operator. You’ve got to handle the
Limited to-night. No more of that. You know damn well nothing is
walking around down there except you. Rub some snow in your face. Wake
up, I say. I’ll talk to you as much as you like, but no more spook
stuff.”

“You’re right,” came the slower response. “I won’t bother you any
more. Nevertheless, it’s walking around here. Maybe I’ll get a shot at
it. I’ll let you know if I do.”

That was all, and Ben and I looked across the table into each other’s
eyes. “Well?” I questioned.

He shook himself as if trying to get rid of something clinging. “Oh,
Donaldson is getting old,” he muttered. “It’s lonely down there, and
his fire’s out. That’s what I make of it.

“When the wind howls, and you’re on a night shift in a God-forsaken
spot like Hastings, you’re mighty apt to hear and see a little more
’an you’ve any business to.”

The next word that came flashing over the wire left no doubt in our
minds. Either Donaldson was clean crazy or—well, he _must_ be crazy!

“Ever see a face half black and half white?” stuttered our instrument.
“I had a shot at it. It’s still walking.”

Ben waited an instant then sent “J-J,” Donaldson’s call, steady for
three minutes. But he might as well have opened the window and yelled
out into the storm. The wire was either dead or Hastings wouldn’t
answer.

Presently McFlin at the junction got busy. “Just O. K.’d 77,” he said.
“Devilish night. The Limited looked like a hunk of the mountain on
wheels. Bet the snow on the car-roofs gets scraped off on the top of
the tunnels. Happy dreams.”

But we weren’t to indulge in any happy dreams for some time to come.
Hardly had McFlin shut up when “N-H, N-H, N-H” called Ben back.
“Lord,” he groaned, “hear that style? It’s Donaldson, but what’s
happened to him? I hate to listen to it.”

Dull, lifeless, flat, came the dots and dashes from Hastings. “No
use,” clicked Donaldson. “This hide-and-seek is beyond me. Its face is
half black and half white, and bullets don’t worry it. I’m a gone
duck. Never mind me. Anyhow, hell is warm and not as lonesome as this.
I’m freezing, and that’s no ghost story.”

“For God’s sake,” Ben’s reply flew forth, “can that stuff. Pull
yourself together, old man. Forget the face or whatever it is; 77’s on
time. Hold hard.”

“Sure,” agreed Donaldson wearily, “I’ll handle the Limited. How’s the
storm up there?”

“Quitting,” lied Ben, and went to the window.

Then followed an hour of silence, with only the shriek of the wind and
the thud of snow. I reckon the two of us smoked considerable tobacco
during that hour, and we played a few games of checkers, too, but our
minds wandered.

When at last we heard the shrill squeal of 77’s whistle above the
noise of the blizzard, we felt happy. Just to know there were other
people near us—believe me, that was some relief!

Far off up the line we could make out the headlight of the Limited
like a blinking, misty moon creeping toward us. Ben glanced at his
semaphore levers. Down she bore on us, the din of her drivers muffled
by snow.

There was the thunder of moving tons, a blast of cinders against the
tower windows, and a snaky line of black as the Pullmans flashed past
under their white-caps. We watched her red tail-lights around the
curve.

“J-J, J-J, J-J,” clicked Ben, back at the table. And directly Hastings
answered in the same lifeless style.

“Limited just passed O. K.,” went on my side partner. “How are you
feeling?”

Donaldson’s wire-talk was worse than ever. “Fine,” he stuttered.
“Maybe I can hold out. The damn thing’s always near me. It’s cold
here. I’ve got my feet on the stove. Say, this stove is a joke. It’s
so empty it’s going to cave in pretty soon. Wait a minute, let me try
another shot.”

Nothing more. Not another word, though we took turns at the key. And
when Ben relighted his pipe I didn’t like the look on his face. “Jim,”
he began, “there’s things in this world none of us can understand. I
reckon after all that maybe, I misjudged Donaldson; perhaps he’s up
against one of ’em.”

“Quit!” I bellowed. “You watch yourself or you’ll be splitting a
switch, too. As you said a while back, Donaldson’s nervous and cold.
That’s what’s the matter with him; nothing else.”

Ben, mumbling a reply, turned again to the window. If possible the
storm was worse.

I don’t exactly remember how it happened; I must have dozed off about
then, being pretty tuckered out. Anyhow, the first thing I knew Ben
was shaking the life out of me. I’ll never forget the expression of
his face as I opened my eyes.

His eyes were all red, his hands were working, his jaw set. “Wake up,
Jim,” he hissed. “I heard it, too.

“No,” he went on as I instinctively looked toward the window. “Not
there; over the wire. Listen!”

I listened, but for a long time nothing broke the vibrating stillness
of the tower. And I got to thinking it was another case of nerves.
Then, Father above us! may I never again hear such a sound!

Our instrument started to whisper. You laugh, do you? But if you’d
been there you wouldn’t have laughed. We went over to the table on
tiptoe, hardly daring to breathe. The little steel bar trembled; moved
down; snapped back, barely closing the contact.

It was like a dying man framing words he couldn’t utter. I followed in
my mind the course of the single, drumming wire over the trestles,
through the ravines, under the mountains. What manner of thing was
pressing the key at the other end?

Ben dropped forward with an oath and pillowed his elbows on the table
as if his nearness might aid him. “Listen!” he begged. “Oh, Jim,
_listen_!”

Presently the instrument quivered again, but this time the impulse was
stronger. Horribly flaccid, monotonously regular, like the labored
effort of an amateur, came the message which shall forever sear my
memory with unspeakable horror.

“God—in—heaven—help me. I—can’t—stand—this. They—chained—cross—
ties—to—the—rails. They—will—ditch—the—Limited. I’m—done—for.
Hell—is—nearer—now. Help. Dear—God—help—me—”

That was all. Ben tore at the key, sending out into the night, “J-J,
J-J, J-J,” until my head swam.

But no response came; not the least flutter. Only agonizing, storm
shrieking silence.

Then he gave it up and staggered to his feet. His face was as gray as
slate. “Jim,” he gasped, “Donaldson is dead! I know it. It was a dying
man who sent that message.”

I grabbed him by the shoulders. “You fool!” I yelled. “He can’t be
dead—he sent it. Don’t you understand? They’re going to wreck the
Limited. Donaldson was telling us. He _may_ be wounded. We’ve got to
get to him.”

Slowly, as if his body was awakening from sleep, the muscles in his
shoulders under my hand tightened. “Sure, I get you,” he whispered.
And before I knew what he was doing, he shook me off, rushing blindly
for the stairs. “Come on, Jim. For God’s sake, hurry!” he called.
“Bring my gun and some torpedoes. It’s only five miles by the road;
thirty down the mountain by the track. Let’s try the car—”

I stopped long enough to be sure the revolver we kept in a drawer was
loaded, stuffed some torpedoes in my pocket, and followed him. Out
into the gale he sped to where he kept his little second-hand,
mud-spattered gas-wagon. I had always kidded him about it, laughed at
it; but now I prayed.

Yes, funny when you think of it, me praying! But I did—prayed it would
run; prayed there was gas and oil in it.

Once away from the lee of the building, the storm wrapped around us,
flinging the snow in our faces, making us gasp for breath. We were
taking desperate chances and breaking all rules—this leaving a tower
vacant, but what could we do? What in God’s name could we do?

When I caught up with Ben he was cranking the engine desperately. I
propped the shanty door open, though the blast of wind threatened to
fairly tear it from its hinges.

Fortunately the radiator of the car had antifreezing mixture in it.
After an agonizing moment, the engine gave a couple of disgusted
coughs and died. But Ben went right on. He spun that thing till I was
dizzy as I sat with my hand on the throttle, feeding it raw gas.

When there seemed no chance left, and I could see the Limited a
burning, blackened mass, and hear the cries of the injured, the engine
started, missing like thunder, to be sure. Ben leaped in beside me and
let in his clutch.

Once beyond the shanty our headlights ended in a whirling bank of
snow, and the cold stabbed like a driven nail. But the engine was
running better now.

How my side partner found the road, or how he kept that rickety piece
of junk from chucking us down a ravine I’ll never know. But he did.
Yes, by the grace of the Lord, he did.

Pitching like a ship in a storm, sinking now and then up to our hubs,
we jounced on down that mountain. What everlasting miles of emptiness!
What biting pain as our ears and hands and noses turned red, then
white.

Once we heard the shriek of the Limited below us on the grade; once we
saw the flash of her furnace door. Seconds turned into minutes;
minutes into hours. Would we be in time? I set my teeth and prayed
some more.

Ah, we had hit the last stretch and through the smother we could see
the semaphore lights of Hastings station. Also the light in the
building itself. Our car snorted and groaned as Ben fed it the gas,
skidding to the edge of a precipice or flinging us half out of our
seats, but we never thought of that.

And now came the wail of the Limited’s whistle, this time above us.
Her headlight flickered across the cut, touching the station with
uncertain fingers. The semaphore was set green.

I shivered, but not from cold. If only we had half a chance, but the
everlasting snow—how it clung to our wheels! And under it our
tire-chains spun gratingly in red clay which flecked the white of the
road like blood.

Bearing down on Hastings station, gathering speed with each pound of
her drivers, thundered the Limited. We were playing the passage of a
minute against a pile of cross-ties—and the forfeit was death!

Now we reached the nearest point to the right-of-way, and as we jerked
to a halt, a black figure appeared on the depot platform against the
light. I saw the flash of a gun and heard a bullet sing past.

But Ben paid no heed. Throwing himself from the car, he floundered
over to the track. I ran toward the station, firing as I went. Once I
looked back. Ben was kneeling down, adjusting torpedoes under the very
pilot of the plow.

Now there isn’t any use of my explaining how the Limited roared by,
her engineer satisfied with the green of the semaphore; nor how he
gave her the air when the torpedoes warned him.

Nor, for that matter, of the futile pursuit of the bandits who had
intended to ditch her. All that came out in the morning paper. If I
remember, there was even a picture of the pile of cross-ties chained
to the track.

The fact that will interest you is what we discovered in Hastings
station. Without bothering to explain to 77’s wondering crew, we
dashed into the waiting-room and threw open the door of the ticket
office.

At the table sat Donaldson. He was stiff and rigid, and from an ugly
blotched hole in his neck there crept a frozen stream of blood. His
right hand still rested on the telegraph-key.

“Good God!” I muttered. “Dead! He never moved after he was shot.”

And then, somehow feeling Ben’s eyes upon me, I looked at him. His
smile was ghastly.

“Sure?” he said. “I told you so back in the tower. He never moved
after he was shot? Then what about that message? How did he know about
the cross-ties?”

“Shut up!” I shrieked. “Here, let’s get him out of this. We’ll go down
on 77. I’m through!”


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the January 31, 1920 issue
of All-Story Weekly magazine.]

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK OVER THE WIRE ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
